# Assignment 5

## Explain the difference between `final` and `finally` in Java 8.

`final` is one of the keywords in Java 8. 

It can be used to describe a variable. If a `final` variable is a primitive variable, then once a value was assigned to that variable, it can not be changed. If the `final` variable is a reference variable, then once it was assigned to point to an object, it will always point to the same object and can not be changed.

`final` can also describe a class or a method. A `final` class can not have subclasses and a `final` function can not be overridden.

`finally` is also a keyword of Java. `finally` works with keyword `try` and `catch`, and defines a code block which will always be executed after the try-catch block above, even an exception was thrown by that block.

## Give the answer shows in console and explain why. (For example, list the operation order of statements.)
* DO NOT run this code in your compiler.
```java
class A {
	List<Object> list = new LinkedList<>();
	public boolean addAll(Collection<Object> c) {
		Iterator<Object> it = c.iterator();
		while(it.hasNext())
			this.add(it.next());
		return true;
	}
	public boolean add(Object e) {
		list.add(e);
		return true;
	}

	private int i = 0;
	public int getI(){
		return i;
	}
}

class B extends A {
	private int addCount = 0;
	public int getAddCount() {
		return addCount;
	}

	@Override
	public boolean addAll(Collection<Object> c) {
		addCount += c.size();
		return super.addAll(c);
	}
	
	@Override
	public boolean add(Object e) {
		addCount++;
		return super.add(e);
	}
    
	public int i = 3;
}

public class Test {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		B b = new B();
		List<Object> list = Arrays.asList(1,2,3);
		b.addAll(list);
		System.out.println(b.getAddCount()+b.getI());
	}
} 
```
Console will show `6`.

Explain:

As the code shows, console should print the value of `b.getAddCount()+b.getI()`.

First, we need to know the value of `b.getAddCount()`. Line `b.addAll(list);` was just executed and the size of the `list` is `3`. And in function `b.addAll()`(which overrides the function in parent class `A`), after line `addCount += c.size();` was executed, `b.addCount` became `3`. 

Then `super.addAll(c)` was called. In that function, line `this.add(it.next());` called function `this.add()` and subclass `B` overrides the function `add()` so the `add()` function in class `B` was called. In that function, line `addCount++;` excuted and the function was called three times because the list size was `3` so `b.addCount` became `6`.

And function `b.getAddCount()` simply returned the value of `b.addCount` so the value of `b.getAddCount()` should be `6`.

Next, we need to find out the value of `b.getI()`. `getI()` is a function that class `B` inherits from parent class `A` and it simply returned the value of member `i`. In parent class `A`, the value of `i` should be `0`, so `b.getI()` returned `0`.

In conclusion, `b.getAddCount()+b.getI()` should be `6`.
